---
layout: paper
title: Mycobacterium smegmatis BioQ defines a new regulatory network for biotin metabolism
image: 
authors: Qing Tang, Xinfeng Li, Tingting Zou, Huimin Zhang, Yingying Wang, Rongsui Gao, Zhencui Li, Jin He, Youjun Feng.
year: 2014
ref: Tang et al., Molecular Microbiology, 2014
journal: Molecular Microbiology
pdf: /pdfs/paper/4.4_Mycobacterium smegmatis BioQ defines a new regulatory network for biotin metabolism copy.pdf

doi: 10.1111/mmi.12817
---

# Abstract

Biotin (vitamin H), the sulfur-containing enzyme cofactor, is an essential micronutrient for three domains of life. Given the fact that biotin is an energetically expensive molecule whose de novo biosynthesis demands 20 ATP equivalents each, it is reasonable that bacteria have evolved diversified mechanisms in various microorganisms to tightly control biotin metabolism. Unlike the Escherichia coli BirA, the prototypical bi-functional version of biotin protein ligase (BPL) in that it acts as a repressor for biotin biosynthesis pathway, the BirA protein of Mycobacterium smegmatis (M. smegmatis), a closely relative of the tuberculosis-causing pathogen, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, lacked the DNA-binding activity. It raised a possibility that an alternative new regulator might be present to compensate the loss of regulatory function. Here we report that this is the case. Genomic context analyses of M. smegmatis detected a newly identified BioQ homolog classified into the TetR family of transcription factor and its recognizable palindromes. The M. smegmatis BioQ protein was overexpressed and purified to homogeneity. Size-exclusion chromatography combined with chemical cross-linking studies demonstrated that the BioQ protein had a propensity to dimerize. The promoters of bioFD and bioQ/B were mapped using 5′-RACE. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that BioQ binds specifically to the promoter regions of bioFD and bioQ/B. Further DNase I foot-printing elucidated the BioQ-binding palindromes. Site-directed mutagenesis suggested the important residues critical for BioQ/DNA binding. The isogenic mutant of bioQ (ΔbioQ) was generated using the approach of homologous recombination. The in vivo data from the real-time qPCR combined with the lacZ transcriptional fusion experiments proved that removal of bioQ gave significant increment with expression of bio operons. Also, expression of bio operons were repressed by exogenous addition of biotin, and this repression seemed to depend on the presence of BioQ protein. Thereby, we believed that M. smegmatis BioQ is not only a negative auto-regulator but also a repressor for bioFD and bioB operons involved in the biotin biosynthesis pathway. Collectively, this finding defined the two-protein paradigm of BirA and BioQ, representing a new mechanism for bacterial biotin metabolism.
