---
layout: default
title: Identify germline mutator alleles in fruit fly using recombinant inbred lines.
image: /images/research/fly_proj2.png
---

Inspired by the successful identification of a mutator allele from mouse inbred lines by Dr. Sasani in the [Harris lab], and with previous studies indicating that certain fly lines can show a difference in the mutation rate, I plan to map mutator alleles using Drosophila inbred lines. This work is in collaboration with Dr. [Tony Long] at UC Irvine.


By performing whole-genome sequencing of a relatively large number of recombinant inbred lines, we will identify variants that are private to a single inbred line that have arisen and fixed during the regular propagation. This design saves time and money from performing extra mutation accumulation experiments since maintaining fly stocks is part of the regular husbandry and a large number of mutations should have fixed with establishment over 10 years ago. Furthermore, the recombinant inbred lines can be used for mapping genetic loci that are responsible for mutation rate variation. This line of research can extend our understanding of mutator allele variation to the germline of a multi-cellular organism, which can shed light on the general process of mutator allele evolution. Moreover, it can open doors for comparative studies of somatic mutation versus germline mutation for multi-cellular organisms.


[Harris lab]: https://sites.google.com/site/harriskelley/home
[Tony Long]: https://wfitch.bio.uci.edu/~tdlong/sandvox/