---
layout: default
title: Develop high-throughput genomic technologies to systematically characterize how mutation processes vary and evolve in natural populations of budding yeast.
image: /images/research/yeast_proj1.png
---

I have developed a modified fluctuation assay during my postdoc ([Jiang et al 2021. eLife], [Jiang et al 2022. Bioprotocol]) which can assay both mutation rate and spectra using _CAN1_ as the reporter gene across different haploid strain backgrounds. Moving forward, I am developing high-throughput genomic technologies with long-read sequencing to profile mutations more efficiently. This can be combined with strain barcoding to obtain mutation spectra from a pooled assay, saving time and costs. This technology can be applied to further explore mutation spectra under different environmental conditions, revealing genotype by environment interactions. This will lead to a more comprehensive view of mutation variation among natural isolates.

Currently, I am exploring an hypothesis from natural polymorphism that some French dairy strains could have inherited mutator allele(s) via gene flow from African beer strains and I am assaying _de novo_ mutations from these groups to test this hypothesis. I will continue carrying out research which combines both data analysis and experimental validation to figure out the natural history of mutator alleles.

Other projects related to yeast mutation spectra I am working on include exploring mutation rate and spectra changes related to aging. This work is ongoing and in collaboration with Dr. Joe Armstrong in [Maitreya Dunham's lab] using magnetic labeled mother cells with chemostat.

[Jiang et al 2021. eLife]:/papers/jiang-elife
[Jiang et al 2022. Bioprotocol]:/papers/jiang-bioprotocol/
[Maitreya Dunham's lab]:https://dunham.gs.washington.edu/