---
layout: misc
title: Join
---
### Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
The Tang lab is committed to promoting diversity, equality, and inclusion in the lab, department, school, and broader community. We are creating an environment in which everyone feels welcomed, respected, valued, and intellectually-stimulated. Tang lab will actively work to help underrepresented populations achieve leadership roles and success in science.

### Please join us!
The Tang lab will officially start in January 2024. Rotation students are welcome to join for the spring semester, and the lab is actively seeking postdoctoral researchers and a lab manager. Undergraduate students are also encouraged to apply, either to assist with lab management or participate in research projects. Interested individuals can send their resumes to Qing Tang at tangqinguw@gmail.com to discuss potential opportunities.

## Graduate students

The Tang lab accepts both rotation and Mentor Admit graduate students from [Quantitative Biology-Ph.D. program] for the spring semester (2024).

The Tang lab also accepts students from the [Master of Science Thesis Option (MST) program] starting January 2024. 

## Postdoctoral fellows

The lab is seeking postdoctoral researchers who are interested in bacterial pathogenesis, antimicrobial resistance, or host-microbe interactions. Candidates with a research background in microbiology, cell biology, biochemistry, or immunology will be given preference.

To apply, please submit the following documents via email to Qing Tang (tangqinguw@gmail.com):

(1) A cover letter that includes a brief statement describing your research interests.

(2) Names and contact information of three references.

(3) Your current curriculum vitae (CV).

## Lab Technician

The lab is seeking self-motivated and highly organized candidates for the position of Laboratory Technician.

The Lab Technician role involves supervising and performing technical and administrative tasks on a day-to-day basis to support the lab's research and operational needs. Responsibilities include overseeing equipment maintenance, ensuring an adequate supply of experimental materials, managing lab safety programs to comply with regulations, maintaining an inventory of laboratory furniture and equipment, purchasing experimental reagents, and assisting postdoc/graduate students with their science projects.

Qualifications:

(1) Education: Bachelor's degree or equivalent combination of education and related work experience. An advanced degree is a plus.

(2) Experience: Preferred experience in bench work or laboratory supervision.

To apply, please submit your current resume and contacts of two references via email to Qing Tang (tangqinguw@gmail.com).


## Undergraduate students

Undergraduate students interested in science are welcome to join! Please contact Qing Tang at tangqinguw@gmail.com to discuss potential opportunities.

[Quantitative Biology-Ph.D. program]: https://www.uta.edu/academics/schools-colleges/science/departments/biology/graduate-programs/phd-program
[Master of Science Thesis Option (MST) program]: https://www.uta.edu/academics/schools-colleges/science/departments/biology/graduate-programs/masters-program
